# OOP Assignment - Eoghan McGough

## Java Prediction Application

My given theme was ***whether or not a product will be in stock***, however this application can be used on any dataset that is given in the same format `csv` file.

It takes in the `csv` file and allows the user to train the predictor based on the data, add custom rows to the dataset and retrain the predictor, make a prediction as to whether or not an item will be in stock (different if another dataset is provided) based on the 4 features, and finally it allows the user to test the predictors accuracy by splitting the data into training and test data.

---
## Frequency Table

| DemandLevel | SellingSpeed | RestockFrequency | SupplierReliability | no  | yes | Grand Total | % InStock (yes) |
| ----------- | ------------ | ---------------- | ------------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --------------- |
| High        | Fast         | Frequent         | Reliable            | 6   | 7   | 13          | 54%             |
| High        | Fast         | Frequent         | Unreliable          | 7   | 5   | 12          | 42%             |
| High        | Fast         | Rare             | Reliable            | 5   | 4   | 9           | 44%             |
| High        | Fast         | Rare             | Unreliable          | 9   | 9   | 18          | 50%             |
| High        | Slow         | Frequent         | Reliable            | 7   | 8   | 15          | 53%             |
| High        | Slow         | Frequent         | Unreliable          | 11  | 6   | 17          | 35%             |
| High        | Slow         | Rare             | Reliable            | 4   | 5   | 9           | 56%             |
| High        | Slow         | Rare             | Unreliable          | 3   | 11  | 14          | 79%             |
| Low         | Fast         | Frequent         | Reliable            | 2   | 6   | 8           | 75%             |
| Low         | Fast         | Frequent         | Unreliable          | 4   | 3   | 7           | 43%             |
| Low         | Fast         | Rare             | Reliable            | 11  | 2   | 13          | 15%             |
| Low         | Fast         | Rare             | Unreliable          | 8   | 6   | 14          | 43%             |
| Low         | Slow         | Frequent         | Reliable            | 8   | 9   | 17          | 53%             |
| Low         | Slow         | Frequent         | Unreliable          | 5   | 5   | 10          | 50%             |
| Low         | Slow         | Rare             | Reliable            | 7   | 3   | 10          | 30%             |
| Low         | Slow         | Rare             | Unreliable          | 5   | 9   | 14          | 64%             |
| **Total**   |              |                  |                     | 102 | 98  | 200         |                 |

*Note: The frequency table for the data (generated by `ChatGPT`) can also be found as a Pivot Table in the `ProductIsInStock(Excel).xlsx` file.*

---
## Class Structure

My application is split into 5 classes:
- ***Control***
- ***FileHandler***
- ***DataHandler***
- ***DataItems***
- ***Screen***

#### Control
Starts the application, has the `main` method that instantiates the `Screen` class.

#### FileHandler
Simple class for handing the reading/parsing of `csv` files.

#### DataHandler
This class does a lot of the heavy lifting of the application. This class contains methods for training the predictor based on the data provided by the `FileHandler` class, generating frequency tables for the data, and testing the accuracy of the predictor by splitting the data into 150 lines of training data and 50 lines of test data (stratified as to keep the same ratio of yes/no).

#### DataItems
Simple class for allowing the `DataHandler` class to instantiate data items as objects, with their four features and one label as attributes. 

#### Screen
GUI class for the application. Handles all visual elements such as buttons and text boxes, and instantiates the `FileHandler` and `DataHandler` classes to implement functionality.

---
## Functionality

When the user opens the application, they will be greeted with a screen that includes a number of buttons, textboxes and labels. At the top right hand of the screen is a label indicating hat no file has been selected. The `Select Training Data` button once clicked allows the user to navigate a file explorer and choose a `csv` file from which to load their data.
Once the data is loaded, the user is presented with a number of options. The predictor can be trained with the provided data by clicking the `Train` button. New rows can be added by filling in the text boxes labelled with the data's features, clicking the desired label (yes/no) and clicking the `Add Row` button.
Once a row has been added, the user can retrain the data with these new rows by clicking the `Train` button once again.
Once the user has filled the text boxes with the desired features and trained the predictor, they can click the `Predict` button, which will give a prediction (yes/no) with the confidence (%).
If the predictor has been trained, the user can also click the `Test Accuracy` button, which will split the data into 2 sets, 150 rows of (stratified) training data and 50 of test data, and will test the 50 predictions. Based on this, it will display the accuracy of the model.

---
## What I Would Add

If given more time, I would improve the GUI by adding multiple screens, rather than have everything crammed into one screen. I would also improve the accuracy test by having the stratified data be shuffled beforehand, to ensure more fair testing. I also would've improved some of the funcionality in the `FileHandler` class to reduce reusing certain aspects of the code.
